Mark Cuban on surviving an AI bubble, the natural gas math behind data center growth, and open doors hard reset on company culture.
Three clips, three bottlenecks, capital, power, and organizational inertia.
On all in, Mark Cuban looks back at hedging his Yahoo stock by shorting an index of internet companies he expected to fail and losing tens of millions before the protection paid off.
It's a useful warning for today's AI market.
Spotting weak companies can be easier than timing the correction.
So I had to actually create an index of internet stocks.
I had Goldman Sachs create an index of internet stocks that I thought sucked.
And then I shorted that index because we and we had to follow all the laws.
And I just had to have that short in place until I was able to do a real collar in the market on my Yahoo stock.
Yeah.
And I lost tens of millions of dollars on that short.
But I made up for it.
Yeah, I mean, the one of the great trades of all time.
Uh, what do you think the the this wave of capabilities in AI?
I'm sure you play with it because you've always been a tinkerer.
Yeah.
So maybe what are you tinkering with and what do you think is going to be the most world-changing, you know, in the next five, 10 years for entrepreneurs, for society.
Where do you look at it and go, hey, let's truly meaning backwards?
Yeah.
Okay.
So AI is a lot harder to implement than anybody expected for sure.
Right.
You know, you can do an agent, pretty straightforward, right?
Yeah.
You can prompt away, you know, we cheated on tests, we, you know, cheated at work, you know, did projects, improved our productivity, a hundred X, right?
All easy peasy.
And we just assumed, you know, at the enterprise, it'd be just as easy.
It's hard.
Yeah.
And it's terrifying.
And not terrifying for employees because Dario and everybody's saying 50% of white collar people are going to lose their jobs.
Here we are two years later, they said within two years, and you know, employment's still growing, people are hiring, we need more AI literate people, right?
So CEOs have no clue what is going on, none whatsoever.
And that's not going to change, right?
And so, you know, trying to explain to them that you need to add a harness to this, you know, all the chance, right?
And if you think about it from an AI perspective, if AI, we're talking about you know, AGI and we're talking about taking over the world.
If you can't, you if you need to have forward deployed engineers, that tells you all you need to know about AI, because by definition, you should just be able to ask AI to do what I need you to do and ask and tell me how to implement it, right?
Yet here you have Microsoft hiring 6,000 people, right?
You have anthropic open AI all saying they're going to deploy to these companies, which tells you AI is hard.
And then you have um Alex Harb from Palantir freaking out saying, how can you give your alpha to these companies when in my opinion, he's just saying they're doing what we're doing, right?
Yeah, we're we're all about forward deployed engineers at Palantir, and they're doing the same thing.
Uh it it again, it's a great insight because you can, if you're using it as a search engine, or you're making your little agent to you know, go to your cron job, okay, fair enough, it's it's gonna work.
You need to be uh have a little bit of systems thinking, but when you start putting into the enterprise, and you know, this is mission.
We're talking about the little bit of systems thinking, yeah.
Because that's the second part.
Now I'm not trying to sh on AI.
I love it, I invest in it, it.
It's gonna be amazing, it's the most impactful technology that we've ever seen and may ever see, right?
But try going into Cloud or Chat GPT and saying, okay, I just want you to do this search for Jason Calicanus investments, and I want you to do a report, and I want you to email it to me every week.
Being right about the bubble doesn't mean the trade works on your schedule.
On Invest Like the Best, energy investor Matthew Smith models AI power demand from the ground up.
Every gas well, pipeline, processing system, and new LNG commitment.
With data center capacity still racing ahead, his estimate of roughly 20 billion cubic feet a day in potential new gas production shows where the physical constraints begin.
And after evaluating every producing gas well and the entire pipeline and processing and gathering system, we have the capacity to add about 20 BCF a day of gas production, even without AI compute.
We had sources and uses matched between our ability to deliver new natural gas from Appalachia, Haynesville, Permian, and that which is supposed to leave the door through LNG now in AI compute.
There's so many different power generating ideas in order to power compute time to power that folks talk about so much.
It sort of goes from the the large-scale most efficient assets, which are GE for Nova combined cycle, all the way down through the distributed generation assets, which we'll call fuel cells.
We will add warcilla oise or caterpillar or solar turbines.
There are various local field level behind the meter assets, those assets are also relevant.
We have had to assign with an outside partner probabilities to all that stuff.
All of this stuff.
And so what we've gone about doing is we will start with our base case, which is we'll call it P50.
50% being they have some approvals.
Everything with a probability of 50% or more.
They have usually a PPA, someone planning to buy power from them under contract.
You know, they usually have some sort of interconnection agreement or they're in process with the interconnection agreement.
Those are the assets we've taken seriously in our base case.
And so we'll call that the P50 level.
And when you do that, it's about five BCF a day, we think of very credible incremental natural gas demand associated with mostly AI compute.
Now importantly, there are multiples of what we are considering serious in our base case that have been proposed that will consume natural gas.
Every solution today, a six series Bloom Energy latest gen fuel cell will take 150 million cubic feet a day of gas per gigawatt.
The market has been assigning a high probability on them attaining two gigawatts a year of productivity or of manufacturing capacity, and that's likely to the AI build-out is increasingly an infrastructure forecast, not just a chip forecast.
Why changing a destructive default like a remote work culture that resisted repeated plans sometimes requires an immediate break.
The broader point is about prioritizing operational truth over comfort when gradual reform has alre going to change a default, you have to do it violently.
Let me give you an example.
Open Door was remote.
Open Door was never going to become in person if we had a seven-step plan over eight months.
I know this because Open Door had had many seven-step plans over eight months to become in person.
It never worked.
So like the only way to become in person for open door was through significant amount of aggression.
Transparently, I thought Open Door was a place where some people were kind of mailing it in.
Yeah.
Not everyone, but some people.
So I stopped at the office.
I thought Open Door was a place where people were unwilling to take, you know, risks.
So we took risks publicly.
So they want like you need to figure out which defaults are killing the company and change them violently.
There must not be change management.
Because you want the change to feel jarring.
Second, you must tell people what you expect of them.
Most companies' mission statements end up being bland, pale imitations of statements.
We're here for the good of the world.
Ye PIA, who isn't, right?
But you have to say things that a reasonable person would say, I don't want any of that.
You have to figure out what those things are, because it matters.
And third, I I if you're starting and uh as a CEO of a new company, I strongly urge you this.
Be committed to truth over feelings.
Truth over feelings all the goddamn time.
Because you will invariably, over time, find that you will get rounder edges if you're not careful.
Double click on the truth over feelings thing though, because I mean most people think that they already do that.
I think what happens is people are truthful within the context of the situation and the people they're in the room with.
The larger the room is, the less space is it there is for truth.
But that is the death of company.
Right?
A slow transition can quietly preserve the exact default you're trying to replace.
That's the daily rundown for today.
We'll be back tomorrow with a clip's worth your time.